 A Project Abstract on
Online Blood Bank Management System
Abstract:
Blood donation is required during an organ transplant, accidents, cancer treatment etc. For blood donation, one needs to check for a donation camp or needs to visit blood bank.
The Manual Blood donation system has many disadvantages which includes, it is too time consuming, often leads to error prone results, consumes lot of manpower, lacks donor information, 
retrieval of data takes a lot of time, percentage of accuracy is less. In the time of emergency, it becomes difficult to approach the right donor. Rare blood groups are not available
all the time at all blood banks and recipients find difficulties to track the right blood donor. To overcome this problem, our project has proposed a system You must be in good health 
at the time you donate.
               You cannot donate if you have a cold, flu, sore throat, cold sore, stomach bug or any other infection.
               If you have recently had a tattoo or body piercing you cannot donate for 6 months from the date of the procedure.
There are many blood donation management systems, but these systems only maintain the information of blood banks and donors. But our project has proposed a system which not only maintains
the information of blood banks, but also maintains information of blood camps which makes blood transfusion process easier. This online blood donation management system maintains the list
of blood donors and also helps the recipients to track and search the right donor easily.
It has two modules namely Admin and User. Admins can add hospitals having blood banks and can also add various blood donation camps. He/she can also view the list of donors  of a 
particular area with proper Blood cross match. He/she can also check for blood requests and in case of emergency he/she can send notifications to blood donors as per the requirements.
Users can register and make a request. Users can also register as a donor. Donors can check for Blood camps and hospitals for blood donation and will be getting notifications in case of
emergency. They can either accept or ignore it. This project aims at maintaining all information regarding blood donors, different blood groups available in blood banks as wells as blood 
camps and help them manage in a better way.
Keywords: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, SQL

S.NO	
Name of the apparatus	
Require Specifications

1.	
Processor	
i3 / i5

2.	
RAM	
4gb(1nini1num)

3	
Hard Disk	
160GB

4.	
OS	
Windows 7/10

5.	
Web server	
Local host

6.	
Languages	
HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript

7.	
Tools	Sublime text Notepad++
8.	Editor	Chrome, Firefox
9.	Database	MySQL

REFERENCES:

We collected all Information of our college students l.e blood groups of  all students
Of second year and final year students of our college and our faculty
supported us a lot
Our college will be conducted of this project .
WHO/IFRC. Towards 100% voluntary blood donation A global framework for action. World Health Organization

Blood donor selection. Guidelines on assessing donor suitability for blood donation. SVR. World Health Organization
Screening donated blood for  transfusion-transmissible Infections. Geneva: World Health Organization
WHO/CDC. Donor selection and counselling Report of Inter-regional workshop on blood donor selection and donor counselling for  priority countries in the African and Eastern Mediterranean regions. World Health Organization
By their support we completed our project

